[music]
[Peter] Good morning, guys.
Here we are coming into Tybee Island.
And when most of us
hear of the state of Georgia,
we don't think of island lifestyle.
So today we're going to get into it.
Three different islands.
Tybee, Jekyll, St. Simons.
We crossed a bridge.
Then we have some marshland.
Big houses off in the distance.
So Tybee is about 30 minutes from Savannah.
This part of Georgia,
if you look at a map, a ton of islands.
Some completely uninhabited.
Others, like Tybee,
people are living obviously.
Gotta say Tybee streets are pretty quiet.
No signs of life other than cars.
[birds chirping]
[Peter] Let's check this place out.
[Peter] You already got one?
Yeah, right here.
-[giggling]
-Oh, man.
On Tybee, generally 10:00 AM
is when we start the day.
-Is it a late morning here?
It's a very late morning.
Personally, I do early mornings,
Tuesdays and Thursdays anyhow.
But for working, I would say the shops
don't really start to open until 10:00.
So you'll see all of us going to
the very few coffee shops
that we actually have.
-And this is one of them, World of Candy?
-Yes.
-You ain't Tybee.
-You ain't Tybee is what?
You ain't Tybee is a saying
that was made up by a resident OG local.
His name is Joel.
And so he and some of his buddies
will heckle the tourists
that are driving around.
And will let you know you are not a local
but they're happy to have you here anyway.
-You're taking me on the cart?
-I'm taking you on the cart.
-No way.
This is your open air limo.
And I want you to just kind of
look around at the island.
And this is not to slam Tybee,
but this is as fancy as we ever got.
And this is how we like it.
To be stuck in the past
means you are forced to slow down.
And that is how the locals want to be.
We live slow.
We keep the stress levels low.
And so even if you show up late,
it's Tybee time.
-Tybee is a bit in the '90s.
Indeed. That's thanks to the Olympics.
The Olympics wanted to have
their volleyball games here.
We didn't make the cut. The strip clubs
were a big no-no for the commissions.
They ended up using us
for the wind and the water.
-To do Olympics, you need strip clubs?
No, we had too many strip clubs.
Although that would have
made a great sport.
[laughter]
No, they ended up using us
for the sailboat races only.
So that brought a little bit.
We had a facelift here in the early '90s
just trying to appeal
to the Olympic Commission.
We thought that we could bring
a lot of money to revitalize the island.
We really fell off the radar
at the end of the '60s during inflation.
And then from there,
we've kind of taken it over.
There's just about…
-Oh, thank you for this.
Maybe just over 3,000 locals
that actually live on this island.
So, you know,
the seatbelts are an option here.
-We aren't popping wheelies on the carts.
-You do have the necker knob.
Yes, it's a suicide knob right here.
Just in case we go off-roadin'
which does happen.
-So this is your job?
-This is what I do.
-This is what you do.
-Okay, lucky me.
-I left the classroom after 15 years
and this is what I do.
You were a teacher?
I was a history educator
and professor for 15 years.
The history teacher in me
wants to automatically wave over here
at what we call the White House on Tybee.
-Okay.
This is an old communications cottage
to a military base
established here in 1897
for the Spanish-American War.
-Oh, you know your history here.
-Yes.
Okay, back to teaching.
-You quit teaching to do this.
-I did.
Do you miss teaching?
I'm teaching you right now,
you just don't know it.
There you go.
We're traditionally a tiny island
with a drinking and surfing problem.
People would prefer to hit the bars,
hit the beach, and then take a nap.
And so it's really nice to fit the gap
of actually sharing
the history of the island.
I mean, we're passing the old day hospital
and the old morgue there.
So when we had a fort here,
I don't know if you know anything
about Spanish-American War.
It didn't even last a year.
Nothing was finished here at the fort.
And so they ultimately decided to
turn us into a government party island.
We started greasing the pockets
of congressional members
that are coming here on vacation.
I'm going to take you
to see how those officers lived.
Oh, cool.
These are lived in by locals.
Now, there is one that can be rented.
It's a bed and breakfast called Surf Song.
But otherwise,
these houses were all snatched up
in the early 1960s by a single family.
We love them, though,
because of the historic preservation.
Oh, that's great. Look at those oaks.
Those oaks are so beautiful.
-Those are oaks, right?
-They are live oak trees.
Live oaks.
Is there such thing as a dead oak?
-Why do you call them live oaks?
-[giggles]
I mean, dead oak is dead.
I'm not sure why they get the name live.
I do know that they have a very dense wood.
You can tell the density
of the wood based on the size of the leaf.
We do have an original gazebo.
So, speaking of party island,
Tybee is still a party island.
We have open container here.
So, as long as you are not in
the driver's seat, you can have, not glass…
What do you got in there?
Do you have some Baileys?
Listen, if it had Baileys,
you'd be holding it.
But you can have a drink
as long as you're not the driver
and it's not in glass.
So, open container, but imagine,
most of the cellars that you're going to
see in the sergeants and above,
with these officers, they have
liquor stills in their basements.
And then they would use gazebos
like this one to hide from the heat
while they sipped and enjoyed the band
as they paraded through this area.
Which is now a coveted HOA on the island.
This is tourist stuff
or is it second home stuff?
-Second homes.
-Okay.
-The city has said…
-Look at that contrast.
Uh-huh.
This is a local home as you can understand.
So, the city has done the math.
If everybody lived on the island that owned
a home like these secondary homes,
our population would be
nearly 30,000 residents.
And it's 3,000.
-And it's 3,000.
-Okay.
So, people are just coming here
for a few weeks at a time.
Some of them do rent out their houses.
And I encourage people when they come
to Tybee, look at the local rentals.
Because locals are renting out
their home spaces without that hotel tax.
-So, that's the old military housing there.
-Yes, it is.
You see the ghost inside too, right?
We have all kinds of spirits
here on Tybee Island. [laughs]
-Is that a thing here?
-It is.
Is that a Georgia thing? 'Cause in
Savannah, they're talking about it too.
Savannah is considered to be one of
the most haunted cities in America.
And I have to agree.
There's lots of spooky apparitions.
On Tybee,
I would like to say that we're haunted.
But I do think it's the alcohol spirits
that get the best of us.
So, these are all the officer's homes.
And it's a really untapped
part of our history.
And because they were bought
by private families,
they have stayed
with their integrity of history.
-Oh, cool.
But you can also
stay down here in the history too.
That's one of the cool things
about the island.
It's a mixture of
both the modern and the old.
But they're we are
so passionate about our history
that they have made the structures
look very much like the old.
You would think that
these are a part of the old history.
They're not.
-They're not, those are new.
We have a nickname on Tybee.
You may have heard of it.
We are the Redneck Riviera. [laughs]
-I knew nothing
about Tybee until two days ago.
As long as you don't call us Tibby.
We're Tybee Island.
It's alright.
We're happy to have you.
So, there's some Redneck spirit out here.
Oh, we're all.
Yeah. Get out your banjo.
Matter of fact, there's a little bar,
Doc's, down on the south end by the pier.
And they still break out the banjos
every Tuesday night.
So, open mic, bring your instrument,
and we all get to clapping.
-Banjos and open container.
-That's right.
-That's what you want?
That's what we got. [giggles]
[Jacqueline] My friend Jenny
is in this last home.
Her grandmother, Wilma,
she was a world-renowned architect in 1964,
bought the first five of these
officer's homes for $5,000 a piece.
The family still lives in them.
And so, the really cool thing
in the basement here
that Jenny has shared
is the remnants of what an interny,
a Nazi German spy
was held here during World War II.
-You had the U-boats off here.
-We sure did.
And there were murals
painted all along the walls from that spy
that was held captive here
and they're still intact.
Can we get in there?
-[laughs] Probably not.
-Okay.
Okay. So, you were saying…
I had the camera off.
-You've been all over the world.
-Yes.
Tybee's your final stop, your place.
It has everything that you could want.
Not only are you on a small island,
you are required to have community. Right?
On a small island,
you have to know your neighbors.
But we also have bodegas, little stores,
at several of the central locations.
So no matter where you're living,
you just walk to your little bodega.
It's open until 11:00,
whatever you may need,
your ice cream or your candies or whatever.
But we also have
so many reasons to play on the island.
We have parades
scheduled throughout our year
and we love when we have
our tourists come out here as well.
We get about 2 million tourists annually.
-Oh, it's a big deal out here.
-It's what we're running on.
-Okay.
-We are based on tourism.
And we absolutely love our tourists.
Look at our live oak
becoming an angel over here.
-What's an angel?
When the branch goes down?
-That's right.
When the limbs touch the ground.
They say that the angels
are gracing the ground with their limbs.
So we're happy to say that
Tybee is a lot of heart and soul
and because we have just a few locals
that are making her stay this beautiful,
so much integrity with her history,
I feel like we are the ones that are
keeping her in alignment
with what she's always been.
You know, Tybee before the 1930s
had about a 40/60 Black, White population.
-There was no racial tension.
-Okay.
It was so challenging
to make this island take off
that everybody had to work together
and we still have that same method
of living on the island.
Everybody works together.
This was not constructed until after 1898.
None of it was finished until after the war
that it was established for was over.
We never used these in battle.
-Okay. So you're just getting ready
for the next battle.
So basically Tybee Island,
while we were intended to
protect the river, the city of Savannah,
we were a party island, we never had war.
But there's a fort
between here and Savannah.
-And that is Fort Pulaski.
-Yeah.
Fort Pulaski was constructed
out of more than 25 million bricks
and it was built, I believe,
starting at the end of the 1820s,
would span, not finishing
until the end of the 1840s.
And they would use that
during the Civil War.
But,
this is the fourth iteration
of the lighthouse.
The third iteration,
the Confederate soldiers burned down
when the Union was on their way.
And the bottom 60 feet
were bricks so it didn't burn.
The Union used that as their staging to put
the rifle cannons and launch their attack.
And that's when
they blew the hole open on that fort.
-What year did the Union get control here?
It was Spring, April, of 1862.
-Wow. I met the right person.
You know all the dates.
All of the things.
And so ultimately you may see a sign
when you come on and off the island.
This is to pay homage to the mistreatment
of the Confederates of that Fort Pulaski.
We turned it into a prisoners of war camp
and we starved them out.
Only 13 of the men starved to death.
So we named that section of highway
the Immortal 600 Soldiers Memorial Highway.
You will see that sign and you will go, ah,
whenever you come back to the island.
Okay. So in Northern education,
Northeastern education,
perhaps it was, you know, everything
bad Confederate, everything good Union.
-The narrative. The basic narrative.
-That was the narrative.
Unless you're in the South, it's the,
you know, the War Between States.
And they say the South won,
which we know is not the case.
Now that the history is behind us,
it's maybe not so much important
to say what is good or what is bad,
but what we should not repeat.
-That's a good way of saying it.
[woman] It's easy to tap into nature.
It's easy to drop your phone.
You don't even bring it with you.
You're going for a walk and you enter
that realm of timelessness on Tybee.
And the locals, we are the ones
that are choosing not to have
the high-rises,
not to have the corporations come in.
Right. I noticed that, no high-rises.
35 feet.
-That's the height variation.
-Okay.
The variance.
What's rent like here?
[sighs]
We're going negative now.
I finally got you on something.
Luckily, I am a homeowner, but we,
for someone who needs employees,
it's hard to find affordable housing.
However, if people are coming
and they're renting,
there are several businesses that are
family-owned that have bought houses
and have turned them into
affordable housing for employment.
-Okay, but it's a tight housing market?
-Very tight.
We're on an island, not many homes.
You're not going to find a studio
probably under $1,500 here.
Like 400 square…
it's New York, California.
-It's a bit lower, but that's…
-Yeah, we call it New York and California.
'Cause we're not used to it.
Back in 2015, you saw one bedroom,
one and a half bathrooms
for 700 bucks.
So just in a decade, this has over doubled.
-Look at this.
-Isn't this amazing?
Jacqueline, I had no idea.
I never thought of Georgian islands
or Georgian beaches.
Me being in my own world and not being
in this part of the country enough.
We're at the beginning of the Golden Isles.
I think that we're often overlooked
because of how small we are.
You know, just some 15 miles
off the coast of Savannah.
But we have it all.
We have a beautiful beach.
We have a surf break.
So where these jetties are, an old
installation to prevent sand erosion.
When the waters fill in
at high tide now, this is where we surf.
When it's low tide like this,
on a less windy day,
you're going to see
all of the fishermen lined up here
doing their fishing scene and things.
-This is nice sand.
-It's great sand.
I mean this is wet.
We're at low tide, but…
-You can see the wrack line.
So high tide is going to come up to here.
-Yeah.
-We're fabulous for shark tooth hunting.
Because of the river's exit
right here at the Savannah River,
you know, the little bull sharks,
they're born with about 50 rows of teeth
and they litter their teeth on our shores.
-So we have awesome shark tooth hunting.
-Okay.
They're about to do
something that the locals love.
It's called a low tide ride.
So at low tide, you time it,
you bring out your beach cruiser,
and that's that timelessness element
of Tybee,
where you just ride your bike.
You're not touching your phone,
you're watching the beach,
you're watching the birds,
you're watching the dunes,
and you're just enjoying life.
Is this, summertime,
would this be crowded or not really?
Completely crowded.
There's a few sections of the island
and the beaches that the locals know to go,
but this area right here
is called the local's beach.
So this is North Beach
and past the jetty line
all the way up toward the river, this is
where the locals are going to set up
and we have our own
little private section here.
The reason why the tourists
are not as inclined to go that direction
is it's further away
from the restroom and a restaurant.
[Jacqueline] How precious is that?
-Yeah, that's what you want.
-You're a kid again.
[Peter] I mean, they got the screens,
but they're just taking photos.
Gotta remember it.
Look it, they're having a great time.
-She said, I love it. Yes, you do.
You get to be a child again on this island.
[Jacqueline] That's Hilton Head.
-Okay, that's famous, Hilton Head?
-Yes.
-That's South Carolina.
Super wealthy, right?
Very wealthy. Of course, it's corporate,
and it's a maritime forest
rather than a sand barrier island.
-Okay, so I'm going to Jekyll today.
-Cool.
-And St. Simons.
-Oh, yes.
And the goal of the video
is to show three different islands,
three different existences for the locals.
-'Cause they all have different vibes?
-Yes.
Jekyll is great. You're gonna see
some of the history there.
But I will say, as you keep going south
it's like bigger money, bigger money.
And as soon as you cross to the island,
you gotta pay.
-Are you serious?
-Uh-huh. You gotta pay to cross the bridge.
-I didn't know that.
-Yeah, I think it's like a $10 fee.
And Tybee is not that, right?
We joke and say we're Redneck Riviera,
but the locals do not want
to stop people from coming here.
It should not be about cost.
It should be about,
do you want to go to the beach?
And do you want to relax
and be able to check out of the world
that you are wanting an escape from?
We offer that.
We're not having you roll down your window
at the bridge and give a credit card.
This is an old fortress
and a really great example of how
Tybee has let its history continue to be
without adapting, manipulating to modern.
And so this is old Battery Habersham.
This is all original.
There's a fortress poured
to face the North Savannah River.
It was finished in the year 1900.
And keep in mind, we didn't even have
but 200, maybe 250 enlisted men
that managed the entire fort.
So it was a very low numbers,
a very non-intrusive fort by any means.
It was, of course,
bolstering with the tourism.
So these enlisted men
who did not have to worry about war
were really worried about going
to the south end of the island
to find a girlfriend on vacation.
Could you imagine
being stationed here?
No war.
You're not really worried about anything.
You just got to walk the beach
down about a mile and a half
and that's where all
the parties are happening.
It's a good place to live.
[Peter] So it's all behind here.
The fortress is still there.
[Jacqueline] And it's not developed.
It's untapped. The city still owns it.
And it faces our police department
on the other side.
It's a one-stop shop here. It's Mayberry.
-That's a nice police department.
-Jail, offices, and courthouse.
-I've never seen a jail look so nice.
-With rocking chairs.
-Right. It looks like a nice restaurant
and a place to get married, maybe.
Jacqueline, I got lucky meeting you.
-So thank you.
-It's an honor, Peter.
I wouldn't have seen any of that.
And I got a lot of ground to cover today.
-Yeah.
-But I do want to tell people what you do.
-And you do this, right?
-I do this. Yeah.
We operate the tours on the island.
Tybee Tour Company. We're easy to find.
Okay. I'm going to leave your link
because you're awesome.
Thank you. Bring your family
next time y'all come back.
Call me directly and I'll hook y'all up.
-So here's the Tybee Tour Company.
-It is easy to find us.
I'm the only tour company on the island.
-Are you serious?
-Everything else is on the water.
[country music]
All right, guys. We're back on the mainland
in a town called Darien.
We're going to get on
to Jekyll Island soon.
But I just want to check out
this cool little town here
with these beautiful circles.
Never seen anything like it.
The road just
wraps around these little parks.
These streets are beautiful.
Slow living out here.
The sound that the Spanish moss makes.
Very soothing.
Sort of like the winds in a cornfield or
tall grass, ocean waves.
Sort of that melodic effect going on.
How you doing, ma'am?
-Your trees are amazing.
-Aren't they wonderful?
What's Darien known for?
-Shrimping.
-Shrimping. Is that still happening?
-Mm-hmm.
-It's still going on?
-Oh yeah.
-Great.
So they're fishermen here?
If you go to the waterfront,
you'll be able to see the shrimp boats.
-Okay, great.
-Okay.
Thank you. You're welcome.
So we'll cruise down to the waterfront
and then get out to Jekyll Island.
Many of you have heard of Jekyll Island
from the famous book,
The Creature from Jekyll Island
and the story of how
the Federal Reserve was started.
It's a nice little downtown here in Darien.
[men chattering]
-He was on the TV show.
-He was on there, too.
[Peter] I do a channel. He actually
watches my stuff, but all over the country.
Get it from the locals.
What's fishing like right now?
Right now we're working on boats.
We're doing all our maintenance.
This is our maintenance time of year.
-You've always done fishing?
-Yes, sir.
How is it? Is it a good career?
-Yeah, fourth generation or fifth.
-Fourth?
-Yeah,
that's my little brother right there.
-How old are you?
-37.
Okay, so the young guys
are still getting into it.
I don't know about that.
I've been doing it since I was like 10.
I started running the boat when I was 15.
-What's your name?
-Michael.
Michael. Peter.
So what's it like economically these days?
It's kind of rough. These tariffs
they put on some of our imported seafood,
it's helped us a little bit
this past year or so.
And the fuel price
has come down a little bit, but…
-So, okay, the tariffs
have hurt global competition a little bit.
-Made it better for you guys?
-Made it better for us.
-Okay, I didn't even think of that.
-Yep.
And to be honest, you don't know
what you're eating with them anyway.
Like them imported shrimp.
-So you're going out here…
We go from here to North Carolina,
all the way down to Cape Canaveral.
-Is there an adventure to it?
Used to be. Now it's a job.
Yeah, I'm the youngest of the bunch.
-How old are you?
-21.
Nice. Do you like it?
Oh yeah, it's great.
But I ain't done it long enough, I reckon.
It's just like anything else, man.
It's hunting, looking,
and looking, and looking,
and when it's good, it's good.
It's a freezer boat,
so we freeze everything on here.
They go into a brine tank.
-Okay.
We get it down to about five below zero,
so it freezes them quick.
And then we put them in the hull
and the hull stays four below.
If I want to buy Georgian shrimp,
American shrimp,
how do I know when I'm at a restaurant?
Ask.
-You gotta ask?
-You gotta ask.
I think Georgia just passed a law
that they have to put it on their menu
to where they come from.
-That's great. This is totally wild caught?
100% wild caught.
-Do your shrimp go all over the country?
Yeah, they go all over.
One of the biggest issues
that we run into is
having a processing plant
that can package them
just like the imported shrimp
because they're so convenient.
They're peeled, deveined,
and sometimes already cooked.
You can buy them when they're imported,
and they're all uniform size and it's just…
-It's because they're farmed?
-Yeah, that's right.
This whole entire waterfront
used to be boats.
-Down to you guys now?
Now it's just this one, yep.
-How many guys are you out here?
I think every boat's here at the moment.
-That's it. Okay, that's what's going on.
Three, six, nine. Nine to ten.
Thank you for what you do,
'cause I love shrimp.
Yeah, man.
Anytime you're around,
and if these boats are working,
you can buy all you want from here.
-Really?
-Yeah.
-Is that for everyone?
-For everyone.
When it's peak fishing season
people can come to Darien
and buy from you guys?
-Yeah.
-All right.
They can pull up,
and this is going to be a little different,
but we don't keep anything here.
It's all fresh.
It comes right off the boat, and then
goes straight to a processing plant.
But if you're here while we're unloading,
you can buy all you want.
[boat engine hums]
[Peter] So you're shrimp king?
-I don't know about that.
-That's what he said.
It's skill out there…
It's go around and mention Ricky Boone.
See what everybody tells you.
-Ricky Boone?
-Little Ricky Boone.
Little Ricky. He's Little Ricky?
-That's Little Ricky. That's his daddy.
-He's not so little.
-What's your name?
-James Lee.
This is what it's like? So you guys
are living for how long out here?
You can stay on this boat up to…
I mean, some people stay out a month.
We typically stay out
about two weeks or so.
-Okay.
Just you and how many guys?
About four guys.
So you got two beds here.
And this way you got…
There's three beds in there.
Bigger bed for the captain.
More of a full size bed.
-This is the captain's bed?
-Yeah.
-The separate one.
And then you got a…
Just a little bathroom.
-Okay.
And then you got a kitchen that's dirty
'cause we're working on the boats now.
-This is maintenance time.
-Yeah.
-Full kitchen.
-Yeah, stove and whatever.
Oh, that's awesome.
This is where you drive, whatever.
Pretty basic, radar,
depth finder, all that type of stuff.
We work 10 months out of the year together.
Two weeks, come home, take a day or two.
Sometimes three days off.
Go back another two weeks.
-So it's like a strong brotherhood?
Yeah. Basically, yeah.
-Are you married?
-Yes.
Is that tough on that? To be away?
It can be. Yeah, it can be.
But it's something you got to put up with
if you want to do this, I guess.
-Yeah. It's your income.
Yeah. It's good money and…
-That's cool.
-It is good money?
-Yeah.
Sometimes it's not.
Most of the time, it is.
It just depends on
how the shrimp prices, fuel prices.
-Okay.
Right.
How everything's going
in the world, basically.
-Gotcha. Well, thanks for showing me this.
-Yes, sir.
And then down here, it's just…
Don't have lights
since the breaker's tripped, lights is off.
But there's two engines,
two big main engines down there,
and two generators down there.
-Okay.
It's got to be cool being out on sea,
though, too, right?
Yeah. You get sunsets every day.
Sunrise, sunset. It's beautiful.
-You sort of tap out
from the world a little bit, right?
Yeah.
But we got Starlink,
so our phones and everything work.
-Did that change a lot
when you got Starlink?
Yeah. Because there's some islands,
like Sapelo Island, you get there,
before Starlink,
your phone wouldn't work at all.
No matter if you had Verizon, T-Mobile,
your phone wouldn't work.
You just read books or something?
You just sit there
and stare out the window, I guess.
I don't know.
There wasn't a whole lot to do.
[country music]
I believe these are the old gates
to the island that was exclusive.
No one could enter back in the day.
It was a private club.
Morgan, Rockefeller, Vanderbilt.
A lot of the big wealth of the Gilded Age.
This was their retreat and it was also,
we're going to get into it,
where the Federal Reserve started.
The most powerful bankers in the country
started the system that we still use today.
[music continues]
So in a way, it's still private.
As in, you need to pay to enter.
At least you can enter now.
$10, they say it's a parking fee.
We're in.
[music continues]
Got a game of croquet here.
The all-White team is out.
First impressions,
this place feels like old money.
Nothing that comes as any surprise.
There's a ton of history here.
This is Indian Mound Cottage.
Apparently there was
a shell mound up front.
It was Rockefeller's winter residence.
Look, these homes aren't insanely massive
for the amount of wealth,
but they are beautiful.
[lock clanks]
Okay.
I think they're all going to be locked.
All right, guys. If there's
a big hole in the video right now,
that is because
I had to remove a huge chunk
here at the Jekyll Island Resort.
They are very tight.
Like, very tight.
Even tried to film
a little bit in the museum.
They didn't want it.
I've been trying to meet up with someone.
that knows the history here well.
You got to go through marketing,
and then you got to go through
all sorts of departments.
Unfortunately, it's fallen through.
I got a bike.
I can show you some of the homes from afar.
I can talk a little bit about them.
That's the next best thing.
So we're going to cruise.
We're going to go to some of these homes
and just show the grounds,
the beauty of it all.
Just imagine,
not that long ago, the world's elite
coming to the island in
seclusion when it came
to the Federal Reserve
but well, for the most part,
in seclusion because
this island was reserved for them.
Private world.
Sir, do you know whose house this was?
[man] William Struthers.
[Peter] Okay, thank you.
[man 2] Later it was George Macy.
[Peter] George Macy. A tea importer.
[Peter] Here we have the Goodyear cottage.
I'm guessing Goodyear tires.
That's a beauty.
"With only drive and ambition,
Frank Henry Goodyear
rose from a $35 a month bookkeeper
to the head of a vast
lumber, coal, iron, and railroad empire."
So not tires. Different Goodyear.
Goodyear began his career with
a hundred dollars, a keen business mind,
and an all-consuming drive to prosper.
He left his heirs
with a $10 million estate.
[birds chirping]
We've got the pool.
A bit cold for that.
All the rooms back here.
Just pathways everywhere like this.
So you can do a tour here
in those trolley carts.
They cruise you around, give you a tour,
but we unfortunately
don't have time for that.
Crane Cottage.
The most expensive cottage
on the island at the time it was built.
I believe you can stay here now.
There are 13 rooms.
Crane, the plumbing
and hardware manufacturers.
It's proof that big money
often comes from not so fancy ideas.
"Cherokee Cottage, Edwin Gold,
son of railroad magnate
and financer, J. Gold.
Owned several properties on Jekyll Island.
In 1904
he built this cottage for his in-laws.
In retirement Dr. James devoted himself
to the affairs of the Jekyll Island Club."
Just think of the back of the day.
All this wealth here,
the activities,
the dances, the secret meetings,
the food,
everything taken care of.
Right? The grounds,
the properties.
There's no, like,
do-it-yourselfers, I'm sure.
Golf,
water,
removed from the rest of the country,
but in so many ways,
having so much power in the country.
Isn't it interesting how that works?
A lot of the people that control
and move the levers of power
are very much detached
from even where we were this morning.
Look at that beautiful interior.
And that's not to judge,
it's just to point out a reality.
They're very much isolated.
And so how does
the everyday person think in America?
And even that for someone
that's traveling like myself,
That is complicated.
You can be out at the shrimp boats,
talking to those guys.
All sorts of types
make this thing go around.
That's the beauty of it.
But to truly understand
it's a full-time job.
It really is.
And then at that, I'm learning
today all new territory.
And it just goes on and on, guys.
Look at this place. What a beauty.
Hollyborne mansion.
Stone home.
With the brick.
Oh, what's that called? I forget the term.
The compacted seashell cement combo.
What is that
for those that know in the comments?
Look at that detail. Oh.
Yeah, we're not getting in
any of these homes.
See a fireplace in the back there.
And the feeling here, the feeling
you'd want to
go back to it for a little bit.
Right?
Go back to those days.
I mean, very few
watching this channel have billions.
Though, you'd be surprised.
But for most of us, we were never in
this world of living in such wealth.
But it would be cool
to step back for a little bit.
See what this was like.
I'm sure it was very stiff.
Very little room to go outside the edges.
I would think.
You gotta dress a certain way.
You gotta speak a certain way.
I'm sure there were more just social rules
for how you have to be in society.
So that could be a little restrictive but,
the simplicity, in a way, of
not having tech, or TV,
or anything like that,
A lot of relationships.
It was all relationships.
[birds chirping]
I guess that's also
considered one of the first
condo styles in building in architecture.
Here we have supposedly
where the Federal Reserve met here.
They started 1910.
A secret meeting of
top US financial leaders
was held here at the club
to draft ideas that became
a blueprint for the eventual
Federal Reserve system.
Nobody knew they were coming here.
They had their separate train car.
Six men from the elite
of the banking and financial world.
1910.
Let's figure out
how we're going to
financially run the world.
Isn't that wild?
I mean the world because the US system,
the Federal Reserve, determines so much
how the world moves financially.
Ben Bernanke was here.
For these guys.
I bet these are their heroes.
So during World War II
this all sort of came to an end.
The state of Georgia
purchased the island in 1947
and opened it to the public
as a state park.
So most of this island I believe
is owned by the state of Georgia.
There are also
regular citizens living here.
And now we're going to cruise.
See what it's like
for the people living here.
I'm right across the street, guys,
looks like this.
Nice residential so people
are living out here full-time.
I'm sure there's some second homes,
a deer in the lawn,
a couple deer.
Lot of American flags.
This zone is just hiring
so many people from the mainland.
I think the town is Brunswick.
I'm sure a lot of people
are coming over from Brunswick.
That being the feeder community.
And then here being
the more elite community
where people are hiring out those services.
A place like Jekyll
without a place like Brunswick,
and I'm spitballing here.
I could be off, but I think it's Brunswick,
really doesn't operate.
I doubt there's much
cheap housing out here on the island.
Got some cool bike paths.
These streets are beautiful.
Think of when the sun is filtering through.
It's got to be majestic out here.
Golf club. Tennis courts.
There's not much here guys.
I'm sure there's some beautiful beaches.
But as far as people
and life on the streets,
it's a quiet place.
I think that's why people are here.
They want a quiet place.
A lot of older people here.
I'm sure multi-generational families here.
But this is what it's looking like.
And it goes a bit more north.
Just this residential
and then sort of just goes to nature.
So what are we looking at?
Pretty much that.
We started over there.
There's a little airport.
That's where we were.
And we're going up here.
We'll turn around,
go back to the south part.
But first impressions,
calm, nice, wealthy, orderly type of place.
Looks like they're redoing this place here.
-How's it going man?
-Hello, sir.
How's the work going?
-Here?
-Yeah. Busy? Lots of work?
-[Spanish]
-Yeah.
You guys live in Brunswick
or you live here?
Live in Brunswick.
Okay, so most people work here.
They live in Brunswick.
-They come here, work, go home.
-Yeah.
This is the hub.
The center point of Jekyll Island.
Beach Village.
This is where it all happens.
You want your nightlife.
You want your t-shirts.
That's about it.
Okay. I think we've seen enough.
Let's go to our last island, San Simons.
You can see at this time of day
all the workers coming off the island.
Back to Brunswick or wherever here.
We got the bridge up ahead.
San Simons, the biggest
of the islands today.
The most people also.
Roughly 15,000 people live on the island.
And you're also getting
second home snowbirds.
So that, I'm sure,
knocks up the population a bit.
[country music]
You know, St. Simons has
a little bit of a Hamptons feel to it.
Southern Hamptons.
You got everything you need here as far as
restaurants, grocery stores,
hardware shops, bicycle shops.
You know, it looks pretty active
and tourist friendly.
I'm sure it gets super busy out here.
Let's check out
one of these roads off the main drag.
This is really nice out here.
It's just the trees make it.
And they put the tree
right in the middle of the road.
Wow, this is beautiful.
Yeah, Southern Hamptons feel.
I haven't seen the mega plots
with the huge hedges and that stuff.
But like your average Hamptons
neighborhood sort of feels like this.
And then the swamp comes right in,
Georgia style.
Things just really well taken care of.
There's something about
living on an island.
You're so close to so much stuff here.
Brunswick right over the water,
but then that divide, that moat,
really changes the whole feel of the place.
Here we go, right up to the water.
Here's the first person
I've seen out and about.
How you doing, sir?
It's so convenient.
-Living over here?
-Living over here.
You're half a mile from the post office.
Winn-Dixie, Harris Theater,
half a mile that way.
-You got it all.
-Yeah.
For somebody my age,
forgive me for going into my sales pitch,
but our house is on the market right now.
-You're moving.
My wife, we need to be back to Colorado
where we get support from family.
Okay, so I'm going to show your house, 219?
Five Pounds Road.
-If there weren't health issues,
would you want to stay?
Oh, absolutely.
This is a fantastic place.
-What's the vibe out here? What's it like?
You could find almost any vibe,
but it's especially nice for retired folks.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
Are there younger families here or no?
Oh, yes.
Yeah, a lot of them. Right on this street.
-Okay.
-Lots of kids.
-[child] Hello.
-Hello.
All right, here we go. Here's Bill's house
on Zillow, $975,000.
So that's what it costs here.
Has to leave because of medical reasons.
Loves it here.
There you go.
That's beautiful,
the house on the other side of that pond.
-How you doing, man?
-Good. How are you?
Good. I'm making a video of the area.
Can I ask you a question?
-Yeah.
How is it?
-I love it.
-You love it?
-Yeah.
-Are there many kids your age out here?
There's a good bit, yes, sir.
We all like ride bikes and stuff.
-You do, huh?
It's how we get around.
-You got a cool thing going out here.
-Yes, sir.
Where do I gotta go? If I'm here for like
literally another hour, where should I go?
Um…
Probably go to like a Marina
or something to watch the sunset.
-Go to a Marina. You're in high school?
-I'm a freshman, yes, sir.
-You go to high school here? Nice.
-I go to Glynn Academy.
-Yes, sir.
-Yeah.
-I love this, sir. That's awesome.
-Yes, sir. Thank you.
-Take care.
-You too.
Well put together, kid.
Just a lot of smiles here.
I didn't put the camera
'cause the family was in the lawn
and they had their little kids
and I gotta be really careful about that.
All smiles, all waves.
Just really pleasant out here.
You know, sometimes
when you go into a neighborhood,
you have the out-of-state plates,
This is a rental car
with North Carolina plates.
They know you're not living here.
There's a coldness.
Not here.
They open up and wave,
and want to talk.
Really nice.
I want to show you guys
there's an island off of here.
Totally private.
Like Jekyll used to be.
Modern-day Jekyll Island.
I don't know if the camera's
picking it up here,
but there are a bunch of jets out there.
Maybe 10, 15 on the tarmac.
They've got their own private airport here.
All right, we're coming up on Sea Island.
All the way up the coastline there.
Members and property owners only.
We're not gonna be able to get on.
Let's just try for the fun of it. It's not
gonna happen, but we'll give it a go.
-How you doing, ma'am?
-[woman] Hello.
There's no way I can cruise on here?
No, it's all private from here on back.
Unless you're a member or a guest
at the cloister or live on property.
-Okay. How many people live out here?
-It's 15 miles of beach.
-Wow.
So we've got quite a bit.
-That's cool. Is it beautiful?
-It is pretty.
And I wish I could let you go
so you can show it.
-I know. You seem very nice.
-Yeah.
-But we're not going to do it.
-I just can't.
Yeah. Is St Simons poorer
compared to this?
You know, I don't know.
'Cause I'm from Jacksonville, Florida.
-Jax. Nice, good…
-I'm just in awe
by this being this close to the beach.
Have you been out here?
Yeah. It is so pretty.
-Super wealthy.
-Right. Oh yeah.
I haven't questioned it but I know
people spend thousands of dollars to rent.
I think it's like $15,000 to $20,000
a night for the cottages.
-Oh wow. $15,000 to $20,000 a night?
-A night.
-For the cottage.
-For the cottages.
Wow. Okay.
Thank you so much. Should I just turn here?
Yes sir, if you go up here to the left
it'll take you back around.
-Okay. Thank you.
-Thank you. Have a good evening.
You too.
So that's as close as we're getting guys.
She said $15,000 to $20,000 a night
for one of the cottages.
And I'm going to drop
up on the screen right now
Zillow listings.
You can't Google street view this place,
but I'm going to put the Zillow listings
so you can get an understanding
of what the prices are for homes out there.
Who knew Georgia had so much money?
I mean Georgians did
or people in the South did,
but I had no clue that
there were these serious wealthy enclaves
on these islands in the state.
All right guys,
end of the road here, St. Simons.
We hardly touched it. Ran out of light.
It's a big island.
There's a lot going on here.
And I gotta say, I got caught up on Tybee
this morning with Jacqueline.
That was so much fun with her
that it sort of threw everything behind.
My fault because I was just
enjoying myself so much.
The last island here, St. Simons.
Hardly saw it.
So sorry to those locals.
But it's interesting, right?
Tybee, you have that
what felt like a real deep community,
real local vibe to it,
to Jekyll, the old world.
And then here, this is a place where
drove by high schools, grammar schools,
basketball hoops, kids playing.
It's more of a, I'd say,
more of a family type place
sprinkled in with tourists, snowbirds,
and second homes, I'm sure.
But three islands, three different worlds.
Thanks for coming on that journey,
you guys.
Until the next one.
[country music]